Srinagar to St. Petersburgh by Captain H. Picot (NAI FD: January 1893, No. 296)

@archival_document @travel_account @kashgar @britishers @india @kashmir @cholera @primary_source

[[National Archives of India Index]]
[[Cholera Index]]

## 1893 Foreign Department. Secret F. Pros. January 1893, No. 296. Notes en route from Srinagar to St. Petersburgh by Captain H. Picot.

"Received from the Director of Military Intelligence, Intelligence Division, War Office, London, S.W., by Sir H.M. Durand, K.C.I.E., C.S.I., Foreign Department, Calcutta."

Opening (p. 1): "Towards the end of April 1892, I received a telegram from Prince N. Galitzin in Srinagar, saying he was obliged to start for Ladakh at once, owing to the scarcities of supplies in the Kashmir Valley.  As I had arranged to travel with him overland, back to Russia, I hastened to Srinagar, and thence to Leh, where I joined him."

Travel party (p. 1): "Our caravan consisted of Galitzin and myself, five Russian attendants, and 30 followers, with 70 ponies, not to speak of four monkeys, a mangoose, and six dogs, belonging to Galitzin."

Russian vs. British residencies in Kashgar (p. 3): "What struck one forcibly, on arrival, was the difference in ceremonial maintained by the respective agencies of England and Russia.  Petroffsky has a Secretary, an Assistant Secretary in the person of an officer, and an escort of fifty Cossacks, under a sous-officier.  His house is spacious, surrounded by walls, and approached through an imposing gateway, emblazoned with the Russian arms.  He never moves abroad without an escort, and on official occasions is proceeded by a banner.  On the other hand, our agent, having no official residence, and no guard of like nature, can make no impression on the minds of the Orientals.  Both Galitzin and Petroffsky asked whether Macartney held any accredited position.  There may be reasons for thus effacing ourselves in Kashgar, but my impression is, that an English Consul, equalling the Russian in attributes of power, would do much to increase our credit on the frontier.  Petroffsky mentioned that the relationship between himself and our agent was much strained.  This strain, Mr. Hendrikse, a Jesuit father and a friend of Macartney's, told me, commenced with the opening of Macartney's post by Petroffsky.  Galitzin, on the other hand, told me, the strain commenced by Macartney sending Petroffsky a copy of *Punch*, containing a caricature of the Emperor of Russia."

Cholera (p. 4): "The fear of quarantine on the Caspian, where cholera was raging, made me decide upon the Siberian route, in the company of Cherboff... At Semipalatinsk and on the river we found cholera in a bad form.  Bodies of Kirghiz were being buried only 6 inches below the ground, so that another outbreak is considered probable next spring."

Closing line (p. 4): "No one, I think, can traverse Siberia and Russia, without feeling the giant powers lying concealed within.  Both countries are swayed by a resistless [sic.] tide of deep religious conviction."

